SatQueryBackend.zip
ZIP

SatQuery AI — Backend Architecture & Verification Summary Executive Summary SatQuery AI is an agentic, query-driven vision-language backend designed for single, cross-modal, and multitemporal remote-sensing image analysis. Rather than relying on a generic off-the-shelf VLM, the backend incorporate

PASTED

here the limit was over on this chat so i asked and worked of in another chat can you validate it and check if the things are going as we have planned or things are off if so point them out being brutally honest cause we want to win this hackathon

Let me actually open the zip first rather than just reading the summary doc — I want to check the real code, not just the write-up of it.

Okay, I have a clear picture now. Being straight with you: this is genuinely more progress than I expected — you have real trained weights, not just a plan. But there are two problems I'd fix before anyone sees this, and one that will actively hurt you in front of judges if you don't.

What's real and good
Actual .safetensors adapter files exist, ~14.1MB each — that's a legitimate small LoRA at r=8, matches the config. This isn't vaporware.
The /analyze endpoint, adapter-switching, SAR dB preprocessing, percentile-stretch optical rendering, and the auditable trace are all implemented and structurally sound.
The core shape (FastAPI → intent classify → preprocess → adapter select → generate → trace) is coherent end to end.
Problem 1 — the min_pixels/max_pixels values will visibly break image understanding
python
self.processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(BASE_MODEL, min_pixels=4*28*28, max_pixels=64*28*28)

That's min_pixels=3,136 and max_pixels=50,176 — a max of roughly 224×224 pixels total, sometimes less. For comparison, my own scaffold used 256*28*28 to 640*28*28 (200K–500K pixels) as a lower bound for usable resolution. At 64×28×28 max, Qwen2.5-VL is seeing something close to a postage stamp. This isn't a minor tuning knob — this is almost certainly why your outputs read like "houses, trees" and "buildings" instead of actual sentences. The model can't see enough detail to say anything specific. This is the single highest-priority fix. Raise max_pixels substantially (try 256*28*28 to start) and re-test — if VRAM was the reason it got set this low, that's the real constraint to solve, not the workaround.

Problem 2 — the "cross-modal fusion" and "change-VQA" verification claims don't hold up under a real judge poke

Look at the intent classifier:

python
if len(files) == 2 and "sar" in modality_list:
    task = "cross_modal"
elif len(files) == 2 or any(k in q_lower for k in ["change", ...]):
    task = "change_vqa"

Any 2-image upload that isn't SAR automatically becomes change_vqa, regardless of what the query actually asks, and regardless of whether the two images even have different timestamps. There's no timestamp field anywhere in the request — so "cross-modal fusion" and "bi-temporal change" are currently indistinguishable by anything except "does one of the two images happen to be SAR." If a judge uploads two optical images from the same date just to see what happens, your router will confidently call it change detection with no basis for that. This contradicts the audit-trail promise you're making — the trace will say "classified_task": "change_vqa" for something that structurally isn't. Fix: require an explicit timestamp or date field per image (this was already in the schema I built with you earlier — it got dropped somewhere in translation to this version) and route on that, not on image count.

Problem 3 — the verification numbers you're citing as "VERIFIED" are thin

"Loss dropped 1.895 → 0.301" and single example outputs like "houses, trees" (11.23s inference) are not benchmark numbers — they're one training curve and a handful of qualitative outputs. From the compliance table, I don't see:

Any held-out accuracy on VRSBench, RSVQA, or CDVQA test splits
Any comparison against the un-adapted base model
Any confidence score computation actually implemented in /analyze's response — it's missing entirely from the output JSON

This matters because "VERIFIED" is a strong word to put in front of judges, and right now it's verified in the sense of "it ran once," not "it's accurate." If you present this table as-is and a judge asks "what's your VQA accuracy," you don't currently have an answer — and I already flagged this as the thing that separates surviving scrutiny from not.

Smaller things worth fixing, lower priority
confidence field is absent from /analyze's response entirely — the earlier plan had this as a required, computed field
No input validation for the fusion-specific requirement (one optical + one SAR, not two of the same modality) — HTTPException only checks file count (1 or 2), not modality combination validity
max_new_tokens=128 is reasonable but combined with the tiny pixel budget, you're capping both what the model can see and what it can say
My honest read

You're closer than the earlier abstract plan suggested — there's a working pipeline and real trained weights, which is genuinely good. But right now the outputs are short and generic specifically because the model is starving for pixels, and the routing logic would fail an adversarial judge's first "let me try something you didn't expect" upload. Fix the max_pixels value first — that's likely a five-minute change with an immediately visible quality jump — then fix the timestamp-based routing before demo day, since that's the one most likely to get caught live.

hey man umm the thing is due to model limit i have to use arena ai though it can use high amound of input it made so many mistakes after pointing it out it fkd up the whole project so can you give a comprehensive prompt which i can give it to an ai which actually follows completely what we want okay also i am asking that arena ai chat for the summary so i will put both your prompt and his chat summary then to make a new prompt alright

I get it — that's a frustrating spot to be in, especially close to a deadline. Let me write you something that actually locks the AI down instead of leaving room for it to improvise and break things.

backend.zip
ZIP
SUMMARY.md
265 lines
MD

here how is this now

Genuinely good place to be — let me verify what I can from this doc alone before reacting, the same way I checked the last one.

That checks out — it's a consistent, honestly-constructed synthetic test, not a made-up number.

My honest read

This is real progress, and it's built the same way the benchmark dossier was: every "done" is paired with exactly what it can't yet claim. That consistency across documents from your different sessions is itself a good sign — it means the discipline is coming from the project's actual habits, not one lucky AI session.

What's genuinely strong here:

Visual evidence went from "named in the PS, completely absent" to "done as deterministic differencing" — and critically, it kept the honesty pattern: labelled as pixel-difference, not a model prediction, with a synthetic ground-truth test (injected 40×40 square → exact bbox recovery) proving the geometry math is correct, not just "runs without crashing." That's the right way to validate a deterministic pipeline.
The downloadable report is built and scoped correctly against what we discussed — per-analysis, not just a benchmark export.
Item 3 under "Deliberately NOT built" — flagging that the overlay can't distinguish real change from illumination/season/cloud shadow/misregistration — is a sharp, non-obvious caveat that a lot of teams wouldn't think to state. That's exactly the kind of thing a judge would ask if you hadn't already said it.
Item 2 — "georeferenced evidence is impossible, not merely missing, because uploads carry no CRS/geo-transform" — is an important, precise distinction. Worth having that sentence ready verbatim if a judge asks why the GeoJSON isn't on a real map.
Where I'd push back

The VQA number is still not in hand. The table says "re-run in progress" and the checklist's item 1 is unchecked. Given our last exchange, this should have been the very next thing run — if it's still pending, that's the single highest-priority action left, not a nice-to-have. Don't let this document's overall polish create a false sense that the project is fully closed while this specific mandatory number is still outstanding.

Item 5 under "Deliberately NOT built" is the most important sentence in the whole document, and it's easy to skim past. "v1-vs-v2 adapter B superiority: not established and not claimable" — this means you still cannot say the retrain fixed anything, only that v2 beats the un-adapted base. If a judge's mental model is "you found a bug, you fixed it, here's proof" — that proof doesn't exist and can't be built with this dataset. Say this exact sentence to them before they ask, the same way the doc says it to you.

Frontend contract is still explicitly unaudited (checklist item 3), and given the minimal-UI decision we made last turn, I'd actually now suggest: don't spend remaining time auditing the sophisticated Next.js frontend's contract at all — build the minimal single-page UI we discussed instead, since it can't have this problem by construction (it's written against what /analyze actually returns). Auditing the old frontend is strictly more work for a worse guarantee.

One factual thing to verify, not just trust: "GitHub Release assets, never plain git (157MB > 100MB limit)" — double check this is actually how you're distributing weights before submission, since this checklist item is unchecked and a >100MB file accidentally committed to git history is the kind of last-minute failure that's invisible until someone tries to clone the repo fresh.

What I'd do with remaining time, in order
Get the VQA number — already flagged as free and ready, still not done
Build the minimal UI — makes the whole thing demoable, decided last turn, not yet confirmed done
Confirm weights distribution actually works — clone the repo fresh somewhere and verify run.sh genuinely works end to end from nothing, since that's the real test of "is this submittable," not just a checklist tick

Where are you against these three right now?

so what it is lacking

Here's the current lack-list, filtered to just what's actually still missing as of this exact document — not a re-hash of everything we've discussed.

Still genuinely missing

1. The VQA number itself. Still says "re-run in progress," checklist item 1 unchecked. This is the last mandatory-capability gap left in the whole project. Everything else on this list is secondary to closing this one.

2. Caption score isn't surfaced. It's computed and sitting inside benchmark_adapter_a.json, but the readout prints macro-F1=None — a display bug, not a missing measurement. Cheap fix: either wire the print statement correctly, or do the ~20-item human pass/fail we discussed earlier as a cleaner metric anyway.

3. Learned grounding. Confirmed still not built, correctly documented as future work rather than attempted with unvalidated coordinates. Not a gap you should close now — this was the right call two decisions ago and stays right.

4. Frontend↔backend contract, unaudited. The sophisticated Next.js frontend's fetch contract still doesn't match the real backend, per the checklist. Given the decision last turn to build a minimal UI instead, this item should probably be crossed off the list entirely rather than fixed — auditing the old frontend is now wasted effort if the minimal UI is the actual demo path.

5. Georeferenced (WGS84) evidence — structurally impossible, not just missing. Uploads carry no CRS/geo-transform, so the GeoJSON evidence is pixel-space only. This isn't fixable by more work at this point; it's a stated limitation to repeat verbatim if asked, not a task.

6. Auth/CORS on /analyze and /report. Explicitly flagged as unbuilt and acceptable — this was never in scope, correctly not being treated as a gap.

7. Weights distribution not yet confirmed working. Checklist item 4 unchecked — GitHub Release assets vs. LFS decision needs to actually be executed and verified, not just planned.

8. Demo pair readiness unconfirmed. Checklist item 5 unchecked — the before/after PNG pair with known 7.84% true change needs eyes-on verification that the overlay actually looks right before judging, not just that the pipeline runs.

9. v1-vs-v2 adapter superiority — not a task, a permanent caveat. Can't be established with 14 held-out negatives; this is something to say to a judge, not something to go build.

The real short list, if you only have time for a few things

Ranked by "PS-mandatory or judge-visible" vs. "internal housekeeping":

VQA number (mandatory capability, still unmeasured)
Minimal UI actually built and working, or the frontend audit abandoned in its favor
Weights distribution + demo pair — verify these work, don't just plan them

Everything else on the list is either correctly-scoped future work or a caveat to state out loud, not a build task.